Have you ever considered
helping out in a foreign-language field?
Perhaps there is a need
in your local circuit.
All over the earth,
the organization
provides language courses
with the goal of reaching
every nation, tribe, tongue, and people
with the good news of God’s Word.
Brother Juan Carlos Chacón
serves as a special pioneer
in the rapidly growing Shuar language field
in Ecuador.
He was recently asked to attend
a course at the local branch
to become a language teacher
so that he could help
willing publishers
learn the language.
[Speaking Shuar]
It has been said before,
“This is a language of the Devil”
—that it should be forgotten.
It serves no purpose.
But to Jehovah,
no nation is insignificant.
I grew up in an area
of the Ecuadorian jungle
where there is
a large community
of Shuar people.
Like many native languages,
Shuar is very complex.
We need many, many workers in the field.
But if we don’t give them a foundation,
if we don’t help them
or give them a little push,
it’s difficult for them to enter this field.
I received an invitation to attend
a seminar for language instructors.
There were 58 students in the class,
representing 16 different languages
or language groups.
We are learning
fantastic teaching techniques,
real techniques that work.
The instructor told us how humor helps
our minds to create a world of connections,
which stimulates our brain.
Yeah, I’m like a small child
when it comes to drawing.
I never learned to draw well.
We draw a scene,
and starting with our native language
along with large gestures,
we act out a dialogue.
Little by little,
we convert the scene
into the new language.
What scares me?
That I’ve never done this before.
This will be my first time.
I don’t have any experience
teaching languages.
Although I felt intimidated by this,
I knew that with Jehovah
all things are possible.
Welcome to the first day
of the Shuar language course.
The techniques they offered us
in the course were like a box of tools
that we need to study more carefully
and see how to apply them
in each circumstance.
When we are in the territory,
we see how people’s eyes
light up when they learn
the name of God.
Just seeing that there is so much need
for them to learn the truth,
that has motivated us to come here
and continue serving here.
Since God has created us,
we know that he will
never abandon us.
He thinks about us all the time,
and he loves us very much.
I didn’t know that before.
I feel so happy now
because I can really understand
the Word of God.
Being in an isolated group
far from other congregations,
my wife and I
have felt every day
how real Jehovah is.
Jehovah is now looking
and giving his attention
to these small places,
no matter how small they are.
If people have a good heart
and want to serve Jehovah,
he will send workers
to give the help that is needed.
And in reality, this moves us
to say to him with all of our heart,
“Thank you, Jehovah.”